Indicativo Pretérito Imperfeito - 
This tense expresses an action in the past that was interrupted. 
The imperfeito also expresses an customary action in the past that is not performed anymore.

A simple situation where we can use the imperfeito is

1) To indicate an action that was interrupted:
Often, the preterite and imperfect tenses co-exist in the same sentence. In that case, there’s a strong sense of punctuality associated with the preterite, and one of continuity associated with the imperfect:
A Raquel dormia quando o seu telemóvel tocou. = Raquel was sleeping when her mobile rang. 
Pedro brincava no quintal quando começou a chover. = Pedro was playing in the backyard when it started to rain.
Ele estudava as lições quando foi interrompido. = He was studying his lessons when he was interrupted.



2) to indicates a continuous action performed in the past that it doesn't performed anymore:
João viajava todo final de semana. = John traveled every weekend.
Antigamente, a Raquel dormia 10 horas todas as noites. = Back in time, Raquel slept 10 hours every night. 

Here’s something that can be helpful. As a rule of thumb, if you can replace the past simple with the structure used to + infinitive (while keeping the sentence’s spirit), it is then the Portuguese imperfect tense that applies:
Antigamente, a Raquel dormia 10 horas todas as noites. = Back in time, Raquel used to sleep 10 hours every night. 



3) To describe people, things etc. in the past:
Os convidados usavam roupas bonitas. = The guests wore beautiful clothes.

4) To indicate simultaneous action.
Renata fazia o almoço enquanto Mariana arrumava a casa. = Renata made lunch while Mariana tidied up the house.

What’s more, we use the imperfect to contextualize and introduce a situation or scenario. In other words, we use it descriptively and, again, there’s an implied sense of continuity:
Havia um silêncio absoluto e a Raquel dormia profundamente. = There was complete silence and Raquel slept on deeply.



Exercise to practice this:
you can write about how was your life in school...